金融市场与产品
单项选择题
1.Today, most banks engage in both commercial and investment banking. Which of the following
statements is least correct?
A.Commercial banks involves the deposit-taking and lending activities which can be classified
as retail banking or wholesale banking.
B.Wholesale banking involves the provision of banking services to medium and large corporate
clients, fund managers, and other financial institutions.
C.Investment banking in virtually all countries has been subject to a great deal of regulation,
because most of their business are very important for the national economy that individuals and
companies have confidence in the banking system.
D.The main activity of investment banking is raising debt and equity financing for corporations
or governments which involves originating the securities, underwriting them and placing them
with investors.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】本题考查商业银行和投资银行的业务。在大部分国家里，对商业银行的监管更严格一些，因为
商业银行的存贷款业务是金融行业的基础业务，对个人和公司客户都有很大影响。而对投资银行的监管政策
更加宽松一些。选项C描述错误，符合题意，为正确选项。对于选项A，商业银行涉及的存贷款业务可分为零
售银行业务和批发银行业务。因此，该选项描述正确，不符合题意，为错误选项。对于选项B，批发银行业务
是为大中型企业客户、基金经理和其他金融机构提供银行服务的业务。因此，该选项描述正确，不符合题意
，为错误选项。对于选项D，投资银行的主要活动是帮助公司或政府进行债权融资和股权融资，包括证券的发
行、承销和向投资者配售。因此，该选项描述正确，不符合题意，为错误选项。
 
2.
A.$4677
B.$4578
C.$4500
D.$4725
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】
3.Darcy, a portfolio manager manages a $10 million portfolio that has a beta of 0.3 relative to
the S&P 500. The S&P 500 futures are trading at 1,050 and the multiplier is 250. He would like
to use the S&P 500 futures to hedge exposure to market risk over the next few months. Suppose
that at the maturity of the futures contract, the S&P 500 futures is trading at 1,000 and the
portfolio has experienced a 1% decline in value. Evaluate the following statements:I. The
appropriate hedge for the portfolio is a short position in 38 contracts.II. The net impact of
the market decline on the appropriately hedged portfolio is a loss of $37,500.
A.I only
B.II only
C.Neither of I and II is correct
D.Both I and II are correct
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】
 
 
4.A portfolio management firm manages the fixed-rate corporate bond portfolio owned by a
defined-benefit pension fund. The duration of the bond portfolio is five years; the duration of
the pension fund's liabilities is seven years. Assume that the fund sponsor strongly believes
that rates will decline over the next six months and is concerned about the duration mismatch
between portfolio assets and pension liabilities. Which of the following strategies would be
the best way to eliminate the duration mismatch?
A.Enter into a swap transaction in which the firm pays fixed and receives floating.
B.Enter into a swap transaction in which the firm receives fixed and pays floating.
C.Issue a bond which has interest rate floor expiring in six months.
D.Sell Eurodollar futures contracts.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】本题考查运用利率互换转变负债类型以及债券的久期。养老金资产端久期为5，负债端久期为
7，资产和负债端久期均为正且不相等，当预期接下来6个月的利率下降时，资产端和负债端的价值均会上升
，但是由于负债端的久期更大，价值上升更多，会导致养老金资产小于养老金负债。进入收固定利率付浮动
利率的互换，相当于购买了固定利率债券，出售了浮动利率债券，而浮动利率债券的久期一般小于固定利率
债券的久期，因为浮动利率债券的久期等于重新设定票面利率的间隔时间。此利率互换会使得养老金资产端
的久期上升，实现资产端和负债端久期的匹配。因此正确选项为B。对于选项A，进入付固定利率收浮动利率
的互换，相当于出售了固定利率债券，购买了浮动利率债券，此利率互换会使得养老金资产端的久期降低
，无法实现资产端和负债端久期的匹配，因此，该选项错误。对于选项C，发行期限为6个月，具有利率下限
的债券，会使得资产端的久期降低，而且具有利率下限的债券当利率下降时对发行者不利，无法实现资产端
和负债端久期的匹配，因此，该选项错误。对于选项D，当利率下降时，欧洲美元期货的价格会上涨，卖出欧
洲美元期货会亏损，会导致养老金资产减少，因此，该选项错误。
 
5.
A.$72,150
B.$78,325
C.$117,325
D.$156,650
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】
 
 
6.A bank entered into a 5-year $150 million annual-pay LIBOR-based interest rate swap three
years ago as the fixed rate payer at 5.5%. The relevant discount rates (continuously
compounded) for 1-year and 2-year obligations are currently 5.75% and 6.25%, respectively. A
payment was just made. The value of the swap is closest to:
A.-$2,555,860
B.$2,555,860
C.$6,450,000
D.-$6,450,000
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】
 
 
7.hich of the following statements is correct when comparing the differences between an
interest rate swap and a currency swap?
A.At maturity, the counterparties to interest rate swaps and the counterparties to currency
swaps both exchange the principle of the swap.
B.At maturity, the counterparties to interest rate swaps do not exchange the principal, but the
counterparties to currency swaps exchange the value difference in principle determined by
prevailing exchange rates.
C.At maturity, the counterparties to interest rate swaps do not exchange the principal, and
counterparties to currency swaps do exchange the principle.
D.Counterparties to interest rate swaps are exposed to more counterparty credit risk due to the
magnifying effect of currency, interest rate, and settlement risk embedded within the
transaction.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】本题考查利率互换和货币互换的基本特征。利率互换中交易双方在期初和期末均无需交换名义
本金，而货币互换中交易双方在互换期初和期末需要交换本金。因此正确选项为C。对于选项A，利率互换在
到期时无需交换名义本金。因此，该选项错误。对于选项B，利率互换在到期时无需交换名义本金，货币互换
在到期时需要交换名义本金，但是名义本金是不同的货币，不是交换净额。因此，该选项错误。对于选项
D，货币互换的交易对手方面临更大的信用风险，因为货币互换需要交换名义本金，且利息不是净额交换。因
此，该选项错误。
 
 
 
9.Eric Meyers is a trader in the arbitrage unit of a multinational bank. He finds that an asset
is trading at USD 1,000, the price of a 1-year forward contract on that asset is USD 1,010, and
the price of a 2-year forward contract is USD 1,025. Assume that there are no cash flows from
the asset for 2 years. If the term structure of interest rates is flat at 1% per year, which of
the following is an appropriate arbitrage strategy? (Assume annual compounding)
A.Short 2-year forward and long 1-year forward.
B.Short 1-year forward and long 2-year forward.
C.Short 2-year forward and long the underlying asset funded by borrowing for 2 years.
D.Short 1-year forward and long the underlying asset funded by borrowing for 1 year.
参考答案：C
8.On the OTC market there are two options available on Microsoft stock: a European put with
premium of USD 2.25 and an American call option with premium of USD 0.46. Both options have
strike price of USD 24 and an expiration date 3 months from now. Microsoft’s stock price is
currently at USD 22 and no dividend is due during the next 6 months. Assuming that there is no
arbitrage opportunity, which of the following choices is closest to the level of the continuous
compounding risk-free rate:
A.0.25%
B.1.76%
C.3.52%
D.Insufficient informati
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】
【莽学解析】
 
 
10.A 6-month futures contract on an equity index is currently priced at 1,276. The underlying
index stocks are valued at 1,250 and pay dividends at a continuously compounded rate of 1.70%.
The current continuously compounded risk-free rate is 5%. The potential arbitrage is closest
to:
A.5.20.
B.8.32.
C.16.58.
D.26.00.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】
 
 
11.It is currently August 2010, and the spot price of soybeans is $5.05/bushel. Storage costs
for soybeans on a continuously compounded basis are $0.45/bushel annually. The appropriate
continuously compounded interest rate is 8%. If a soybean farmer has just finished harvesting
his crop but would like to sell half of the crop in February 2011 and half in May 2011 by going
short futures contracts, which of the following statements is most accurate? The farmer should
store his crop only if the:
A.February futures contract price is more than $5.50/bushel and the May futures contract price
is more than $5.73/bushel.
B.February futures contract price is more than $5.73/bushel and the May futures contract price
is more than $5.50/bushel.
C.?February futures contract price is less than $5.73/bushel and the May futures contract price
is less than $5.50/bushel.
D.?February futures contract price is less than $5.50/bushel and the May futures contract price
is less than $5.73/bushel.
参考答案：D
【莽学解析】
 
 
12.Consider a U.K. based company that exports goods to the EU. The U.K. company expects to
receive payment on a shipment of goods in 60 days. Because the payment will be in euros, the
U.K. company wants to hedge against a decline in the value of the euro against the pound over
the next 60 days. The U.K. risk-free rate is 3% and the EU risk-free rate is 4%. No change is
expected in these rates over the next 60 days. The current spot rate is EURGBP0.9230. To hedge
the currency risk, the U.K. company should take a short position in a Euro contract at a
forward price of (Assume annual compounding):
A.0.9205.
B.0.9215.
C.0.9244.
D.0.9141.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】
 
 
13.
A.The aggregate euro exposure faces the risk that the euro will rise in value against the
domestic currency.
B.The aggregate euro exposure faces the risk that the euro will fall in value against the
domestic currency.
C.The banks, collectively, are net long euros.
D.The banks, collectively, are close to evenly matched and face little euro exposure.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】本题考查外汇风险。欧元资产和欧元应收款会面临欧元贬值的风险，而欧元负债和欧元应付款
会面临欧元升值的风险。
所以三家银行欧元负债和欧元应付款之和大于欧元资产和欧元应收款之和，会面临欧元升值的风险。因此正
确选项为A。对于选项B，三家银行欧元负债和欧元应付款之和大于欧元资产和欧元应收款之和，会面临欧元
升值的风险，而不是欧元贬值的风险。因此，该选项错误。对于选项C，三家银行欧元负债和欧元应付款之和
大于欧元资产和欧元应收款之和，相当于欧元的空头方而不是多头方。因此，该选项错误。对于选项D，三家
银行欧元负债和欧元应付款之和大于欧元资产和欧元应收款之和，对于欧元是有风险敞口的。因此，该选项
错误。
 
14.You are an institutional portfolio manager. One of your clients is very interested in the
flexibility of options but expresses great concern about the high cost of some of them. In
general, which of the following options would be the most costly to purchase?
A.Barrier options
B.Standard American options
C.Lookback options
D.Asian options
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】本题考查奇异期权的性质。回望期权的损益取决于期权有效期内标的资产的最高或最低价格
，普通期权的损益取决于到期时标的资产的价格，所以回望期权相较于普通期权会更加灵活，期权费也更贵
。因此正确选项为C。对于选项A，障碍期权在触及到障碍价后会生效或者失效，相较于普通期权限制更多
，所以期权费会更便宜。因此，该选项错误。对于选项B，标准美式期权的期权费没有回望期权贵。因此，该
选项错误。对于选项D，亚式期权的损益取决于期权有效期内标的资产的平均价格，相当于降低了期权价格的
波动率，从而降低了期权的价值。所以亚式期权的期权费会比普通期权更加便宜。因此，该选项错误。
 
15.A 1-year American put option with an exercise price of $40 will be worth $16.00 at maturity
with a probability of 0.25 and $0.00 with a probability of 0.75. The current stock price is
$36. The continuous discount rate is 5%. The optimal strategy is to:
A.Exercise the option because the option is in-the-money.
B.Not exercise the option because the option is out-the money.
C.Exercise the option now because the payoff from exercise exceeds the present value of the
expected future payoff.
D.No difference between exercise the option now or at the maturity, because the payoff from
exercise is equal to the discounted present value of the future payoff.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】
 
 
16.Which of the following is not an assumption of the Black-Scholes-Merton options pricing
model?
A.The underlying stock price follows lognormal distribution and the rate of return of the stock
follows normal distribution.
B.The interest rate changes randomly over time.
C.The instantaneous variance of the return of the underlying is constant.
D.Markets are perfect, i.e. short sales are allowed, there are no transaction costs or taxes,
and markets operate continuously.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】本题考查BSM模型的假设。BSM模型中假设无风险利率恒定且已知，并不会随着时间而改变。选
项B描述错误，符合题意，为正确选项。对于选项A，BSM模型中假设资产的价格服从对数正态分布，而收益率
服从正态分布。因此，该选项描述正确，不符合题意，为错误选项。对于选项C，BSM模型中假设资产收益率
的波动率恒定且已知。因此，该选项描述正确，不符合题意，为错误选项。对于选项D，BSM模型中假设市场
是完美的，即允许卖空，可进行连续交易，标的资产是可分割的，没有交易成本，没有税收，也没有监管约
束，市场上没有套利机会。因此，该选项描述正确，不符合题意，为错误选项。
 
17.Derivatives are contracts whose values depend on the values of one or more financial
variables, we use derivatives to hedge risk, to make some profit, which of the following is
least correct considering the characteristic of derivatives?
A.Forward is an over-the-counter contract which having many regulations, the risk of this
derivative is less than that of futures in the case that the underlying asset, the maturity of
time, and the other characteristics are the same.
B.The advantage of OTC markets is that the contracts traded do not have to be the standard
contracts defined by exchanges, and market participants can trade any contracts they like.
C.A futures contract provides a similar payoff to a forward contract, but it trades on an
exchange.
D.Derivatives markets attract many kinds of traders, the leverage that speculators can obtain
means that it is very easy for traders to take significant risks.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】本题考查场内与场外市场的基本特征。远期合约在场外市场进行交易，受到的监管较少，信用
风险比期货合约更大。期货合约在场内市场进行交易，受到的监管较多，没有信用风险。选项A描述错误，符
合题意，为正确选项。对于选项B，场外市场交易的产品相较于场内市场交易的产品更具个性化，可以满足交
易者特定的交易需求。因此，该选项描述正确，不符合题意，为错误选项。对于选项C，期货和远期合约的损
益是非常接近的，主要的区别在于期货合约每天进行结算，而远期合约到期结算。因此，该选项描述正确
，不符合题意，为错误选项。对于选项D，很多衍生品合约具有较高的杠杆，杠杆会放大收益和亏损，所以对
于投机者而言，由于杠杆的存在会放大风险。因此，该选项描述正确，不符合题意，为错误选项。
 
18.Derivatives have become increasingly important in finance. They are used to transfer risks
or the other purposes. which of the statement of derivatives are most correct?
A.There are two types of option, A call option gives the holder the right to buy the underlying
asset by a certain date for a certain price while the shorter of this option can reject the
requirement to exercise of the holder.
B.Traders use derivatives to hedge risk by constructing naked positions.
C.Derivatives are very versatile instruments, they can be used for hedging, for speculation,
and for arbitrage.
D.A forward or futures contract involves an obligation to buy or sell an asset at a certain
time in the future for a certain price, while option have the same function.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】本题考查期权的基本特征。衍生品是一种应用广泛的金融产品，可用于对冲风险，投机和套利
。因此正确选项为C。对于选项A，call option的买方有权在期权到期日以约定的价格买进标的资产，而卖方
有义务在期权到期日以约定的价格卖出标的资产，卖方无法拒绝买方的行权要求。因此，该选项错误。对于
选项B，在用衍生品做对冲时，构建的是covered positions，而不是naked positions。因此，该选项错误。
对于选项D，远期和期货的买卖双方均有义务在合约到期时履行合约，而期权的买方只有权力没有义务，期权
的卖方只有义务没有权力。所以期权和远期、期货是有区别的。因此，该选项错误。
 
19.In futures trading, clearinghouses play an important role. Which of the functions should the
clearing houses fulfill in the settlement process of futures?
A.In case of physical settlement, the clearinghouse guarantees that the longs will receive the
specified merchandise.
B.The clearinghouse receives delivery notices from the longs and assigns the notices to the
shorts.
C.Each day, members who have lost money pay their loss amount to the clearinghouse, while
members who have gained will not receive their gain amount from the clearinghouse.
D.The clearinghouse implements a procedure where short positions and long positions in a
particular contract offset each other.
参考答案：D
【莽学解析】本题考查期货的交易机制。在期货的交易过程中，清算所会采用净额结算的方式，即在特定合
约中，空头头寸和多头头寸相互抵消，最终支付净额的过程。因此正确选项为D。对于选项A，在实物交割的
过程中，卖方可以选择交割的资产类别和质量，因此清算所无法保证多头方一定能收到确定的标的资产。因
此，该选项错误。对于选项B，清算所从卖方获取交割通知，然后传递给买方。因此，该选项错误。对于选项
C，期货交易过程中每日结算，清算所会把亏损一方保证金账户中的资金划转给盈利一方的保证金账户中，盈
利和亏损在当天均会结算。因此，该选项错误。
 
20.William Wang, FRM, entered into the long position of two wheat futures contracts matured on
June. Each contract is 15,000 pounds of wheat. The current futures price is 150 cents per
pound. The initial margin was about $5,000 for each contract and the maintenance margin was
$3,500 for each contract. Based on the information above, what price changes will lead to the
margin call and under what circumstances can $2000 be withdrawn from the margin account by
investors?
A.When the futures price is below 140 cents/pound, investors will receive margin call; when the
futures price rises to 156.67 cents/pound, investors can withdraw $2000 margin.
B.When the futures price is above 160 cents/pound, investors will receive margin call; when the
futures price declines to 143.33 cents/pound, investors can withdraw $2000 margin.
C.When the futures price is below 130 cents/pound, investors will receive margin call; when the
futures price rises to 163.33 cents/pound, investors can withdraw $2000 margin.
D.When the futures price is above 170 cents/pound, investors will receive margin call; when the
futures price declines to 136.67 cents/pound, investors can withdraw $2000 margin.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】
 
 
21.A corn grower is concerned that the price he can get from the field in mid-October will be
less than he has forecasted. To protect himself from price declines, the farmer has decided to
hedge. The best available futures contract he can find is for August delivery. Which of the
following is the appropriate direction of his position and the source of basis risk that may
impact the farmer?
A.Short futures; Stack and roll
B.Short futures; Cross hedging
C.Long futures; Cross hedging
D.Long futures; Stack and roll
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】本题考查对冲方向的判断和产生基差的原因。玉米种植者持有玉米，为现货的多头方，担心未
来现货价格下跌，为了对冲价格下跌的风险需要进入期货合约的空头方。玉米种植者需要在10月中旬出售玉
米，然而市场上合适的期货合约在8月份到期，这意味着在对冲时需要采用滚动对冲，期货到期时间与现货资
产交易时间不一致会导致基差。因此正确选项为A。对于选项B，交叉对冲是指需要对冲的资产与期货合约的
标的资产不一致。因此，该选项错误。对于选项C，玉米种植者持有玉米，为现货的多头方，需要进入期货合
约的空头方对冲资产价格下跌的风险，而不是多头。期货到期时间与现货资产交易时间不一致需要采用滚动
对冲而不是交叉对冲。因此，该选项错误。对于选项D，米种植者持有玉米，为现货的多头方，需要进入期货
合约的空头方对冲资产价格下跌的风险，而不是多头。因此，该选项错误。
 
22.Stock A is expected to pay a $1 dividend after 2 month and a $2 dividend after 5 months. The
stock price is now priced at $30, the continuous compounded risk-free rate for all maturities
is 8%. An investor has just entered into a short position in a 6-month forward contract of the
stock. Based on the information above, what is the reasonable price of this stock forward
contract?
A.USD 28.19
B.USD 29.34
C.USD 29.98
D.USD 30.41
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】
 
 
23.Suppose there are one-year exchange currency forward and futures contract with the same
quoting price at 1.3000 GBPUSD. During the year, the futures price experiences a decrease to
1.2000 GBPUSD and then rises to 1.4000 GBPUSD at end of the year. The interest rate during the
year is constant. Considering the mark-to-market effect of the futures contract, what is the
favorable choice for a trader who wants to buy 1 million British pounds and eliminate the
currency risk?
A.Entering into the long position of the GBPUSD forward contract.
B.Entering into the long position of the GBPUSD futures contract.
C.Entering into the short position of the GBPUSD forward contract.
D.Entering into the short position of the GBPUSD futures contract.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】本题考查利用外汇远期对冲汇率风险。首先判断进入头寸的方向，GBPUSD报价形式是指一单位
GBP价值多少单位USD，因此进入GBPUSD合约的多头，相当锁定购买GBP的成本（用USD购买），与题干描述的
一年后希望以固定价格买入英镑一致，所以是long GBPUSD。其次判断选用forward还是futures。由于
futures存在每日盯市制度，所以在题干描述的场景下，英镑汇率先降再升，这意味着GBPUSD futures多头方
在期间有额外现金流支付，而forward没有这个困扰，即使最后时刻两种合约的期末价值相同，因此多头方在
此场景下更愿意进入long forward。但如果场景变为先升后降，那么进入long futures会更好。因此正确选
项为A。对于选项B，当英镑汇率先降再升时，forward合约更有吸引力，因此，该选项错误。对于选项C，一
年后希望以固定价格买入英镑应该进入GBPUSD合约的多头，而不是空头。因此，该选项错误。对于选项D，一
年后希望以固定价格买入英镑应该进入GBPUSD合约的多头，而不是空头。同时，当英镑汇率先降再升时
，forward合约更有吸引力。因此，该选项错误。
 
 
25.A currency trader notices that the 3-month future price is USD 0.7350. The trader gathered
some further information as follow.Current spot USDCHF rate: 1.3680 (1USD = 1.3680CHF)3-month
USD interest rates: 1.05%3-month Swiss interest rates: 0.35%Assume continuous compounding, what
kind of actions should the trader take to capture an arbitrage opportunity:
24.A Canadian-based tire company will receive $2,500,000 payment from its American-based
distributor in two months. The Canadian firm hedges the exchange rate risk using a forward
contract and the exchange rate of USDCAD is priced at 1.20. If the US dollar depreciates over
the next two months and the expected future spot exchange rate of USDCAD would be 1.08, how
much more or less will the Canadian-based tire firm receive in Canadian dollars by hedging,
versus an unhedged position?
A.300,000 CAD more
B.300,000 CAD less
C.277,778 USD more
D.277,778 USD less
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】本题考查利用外汇远期对冲外汇风险。签订外汇远期时，2个月后以远期汇率USDCAD 1.2将2,
500,000 USD转换成加元，此时可以获得的加元为：2,500,000 USD×1.2=3,000,000 CAD不签订外汇远期时
，2个月后以即期利率USDCAD 1.08将2, 500,000 USD转换成加元，此时可以获得的加元为：2,500,000
USD×1.08=2,700,000 CAD签订外汇远期对冲外汇风险比不签订外汇远期时可以多获得300,000 CAD。因此
，选项A正确。
A.Borrow CHF, buy USD spot, long CHF futures
B.Borrow CHF, sell CHF spot, short CHF futures
C.Borrow USD, buy CHF spot, short CHF futures
D.Borrow USD, sell USD spot, long CHF futures
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】
 
 
26.
A.Oil Corn Natural gas
B.Natural gas Oil Corn
C.Corn Natural gas Oil
D.Natural gas Oil Corn
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】
 
27.A large publicly held company refines crude oil into gasoline and sells gasoline wholesale
with long-term contracts at fixed prices. The firm also owns the land, with full rights, from
which it pumps crude oil the firm financed the purchase of the land by issuing floating-rate
bonds. This firm could reduce the volatility of its earnings by entering into an:Ⅰ. interest-
rate swap.Ⅱ. oil commodity swap.
A.I only.
B.II only.
C.Both I and II.
D.Neither I nor II.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】本题考查利用互换转变负债头寸。对于statement Ⅰ，企业发行了浮动利率债券，所以企业对
利率波动是敏感的。进入付固定收浮动的利率互换可以将浮动利率的负债转换为固定利率的负债，不受利率
波动的影响。因此，需要进入利率互换。对于statement Ⅱ，企业拥有自己的生产资源，然后用长期锁定的
价格批发卖出，所以该企业是不面临商品价格风险的，原油商品互换将不会降低收益的波动性。因此，无需
进入原油商品互换。所以只用进入利率互换，选项A正确。
 
28.Tom enterprise entered a swap with USD 5 million notional and received a floating rate based
on 6-month Libor. It paid a fixed rate of 7% semiannually. The last cash flow of the swap
exchanged 3 months ago. The swap has a remaining life of 15 months, with payment dates at 3, 9
and 15months. Today, continuously compounded spot Libor rates for 3-month, 9-month, 15-month
are 5.8%, 6.5% and 6.8% respectively. The Libor at last payment was 6.1%. The value of the swap
to Tom is closest to:
A.-$13,024
B.$13,024
C.-$14,127
D.$14,127
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】
29.
A.-$39,121
B.-$10,893
C.$10,893
D.$39,121
参考答案：D
【莽学解析】
 
 
30.A financial institution has entered into a plain vanilla currency swap with one of its
customers. The period left on the swap is two years with the institution paying 4.5% on USD120
million and receiving 2% on JPY3,500 million annually. The current exchange rate is 120
JPY/USD, and the flat term structure in both countries generates a 3% rate in the United States
and a 0.5% rate in Japan. The current value of this swap to the institution is closest to
(continuously compounded):
A.$93.04 million
B.-$93.04 million
C.$118.1 million
D.-$118.1 million
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】
 
 
31.Which option combination most closely simulates the economics of a short position in a
futures contract? Suppose the options and futures contracts have the same underlying assets and
options’ strike price is equal to the futures price.
A.Payoff of a long call plus a short put
B.Profit of a long call plus a short put
C.Payoff of a long put plus short call
D.Profit of long put plus short call
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】
 
 
32.There are important differences between options and forwards/futures, with forwards and
futures, a trader is obligated to buy or sell the underlying asset at a certain price. In the
U.S., tens of millions of options are traded daily on exchanges such as the CBOE, NASDAQ, the
New York Stock Exchange, and the International Securities Exchange. What is the correct number
of the following statement?Ⅰ. A European call (or put) option gives the buyer the right to buy
(or sell) an asset at a certain price at any time before and during the specified date.Ⅱ.
Options can be in the money, at the money, out of the money, this is referred to as their
moneyness, a call option is out of the money when the asset price is greater than the strike
price.Ⅲ. Cash dividends usually don’t affect the terms of a stock option while stock splits
do lead to strike price adjustment.Ⅳ. Like the exchange-traded options market, the OTC options
market is substantial, the main advantage of the OTC market is that financial institutions can
tailor options to meet the specific needs of their clients.
A.1
B.2
C.3
D.4
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】本题考查期权的基本性质。对于Statement Ⅰ，欧式期权只能在到期日行权，在到期日前的任
何时间都不能行权，因此该陈述错误。对于Statement II，看涨期权的标的资产价格大于行权价格时，看涨
期权盈利，为价内期权，而不是价外期权。因此该陈述错误。对于Statement III，股票期权的标的资产股票
在分发股利时，一般不会影响股票期权，但如果是拆股的话，对应的股票期权的行权价要经过适当的调整。
因此该陈述正确。对于Statement IV，期权可以再场内和场外交易，场外交易的期权灵活度更高，可以满足
客户的个人需求。因此该陈述正确。因此有2个陈述正确，选项B正确。
 
33.There are three statements about the upper/lower bounds of the options on a non-dividends
stock as below:Ⅰ. Call option has the same upper and lower bounds between American and
European styles. But put option in American style has higher level at upper and lower bounds
than the one in European style.Ⅱ. The lower bound for an American put option is max{K-S , 0},
because an American put can be exercised at any time, so the promised cash flow receiving
should not be discounted.Ⅲ. The upper bound of a American call option is the strike price,
while the one of a American put option is underlying stock price.How many statements above is
accurate?
A.one
B.two
C.three
D.none
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】本题考查无股利情况下的期权价值上下界。对于Statement Ⅰ，欧式和美式call option的上下
界保持一致，因为不含持有期收益的call option不会提前行权，美式和欧式没有差异。但卖权有可能提前行
权，所以美式卖权的上下界要比欧式的大一些。因此该陈述正确。对于Statement II，美式put option的下
界是直接用执行价格减去标的价格，不需要折现，因为期权存续期内任意时刻，只要美式卖权所有者发起行
权，他就会立刻收到金额为X的现金流，而不需要等到期权到期。因此该陈述正确。对于Statement III，美
式call option的上界是标的资产价格，美式put option的上界是执行价格，表述说反了。因此该陈述错误。
因此有2个陈述正确，选项B正确。
 
34.According to an in-house research report, it is expected that USDJPY will trade near 97 at
the end of March. Frankie Shiller, the investment director of a house fund, decides to use an
option strategy to capture this opportunity. The current level of the USDJPY exchange rate is
97 on February 28. Accordingly, which of the following strategies would be the most appropriate
for the largest profit while the potential loss is limited?
A.Long a call option on USDJPY and long a put option on USDJPY with the same strike price of
USDJPY 97 and expiration date.
B.Long a call option on USDJPY with strike price of USDJPY 97 and short a call option on USDJPY
with strike price of USDJPY 99 and the same expiration date.
C.Short a call option on USDJPY and long a put option on USDJPY with the same strike price of
USDJPY 97 and expiration date.
D.Long a call option with strike price of USDJPY 96, long a call option with strike price of
USDJPY 98, and sell two call options with strike price of USDJPY 97, all of them with the same
expiration date.
参考答案：D
【莽学解析】本题考查期权交易策略的构建和应用。当前美元和日元的汇率水平为97，投资者认为3月底美元
和日元的汇率仍为97，即认为市场汇率平稳。构建交易策略需要在市场平稳的情况下获利，并保证潜在损失
有限，可以采用蝶式价差策略。买一份执行价为96的call option，买一份执行价为98的call option，卖出
两份执行价为97的call option，相当于构建了蝶式价差策略，当汇率稳定在97附近时可以盈利，并且潜在的
亏损是有限的。因此正确选项为D。对于选项A，买入一份call option和put option，相当于构建了跨式策略
，在现货价格保持平稳的情况下将会产生损失。因此，该选项错误。对于选项B，买入一份行权价低的call
option，卖出一份行权价高的call option，相当于构建了牛市价差策略，当现货价格上涨时会产生盈利。因
此，该选项错误。对于选项C，卖出一份call option，买入一份put option，相当于做空现货头寸，当现货
价格下跌时会产生盈利。因此，该选项错误。
 
35.A stock is currently trading at USD 45, and its annual price volatility is 30%. The risk-
tree rate is 1.5% per year. A risk manager is developing a 1-step binomial tree for a 2-year
horizon. What is the risk-neutral probability that the stock will move down?
A.30%
B.43%
C.57%
D.70%
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】
 
 
36.An analyst is pricing a 2-year European put option on a non-dividend-paying stock using a
binomial tree with two steps of one year each. The stock price is currently USD 38, and the
strike price of the put is USD 40. What is the value of the put closest to, assuming that the
annual risk-free rate will remain constant at 2% over the next two years and the annual stock
volatility is 15%?
A.3.04 USD
B.3.48 USD
C.3.62 USD
D.3.81 USD
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】
 
 
37.What is the price of a three month European put option on a non-dividend-paying stock with a
strike price of $50 when the current stock price is $50, the risk-free interest rate is 10% per
annum, and the volatility is 30% per annum? The table for N(x) is shown below:
 
A.$2.37
B.$2.48
C.$2.25
D.$2.63
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】
 
 
38.In order to test the students’ understanding of the option Greeks other than delta and
gamma, the professor added the following True or False questions in the quiz:Ⅰ. The rho of a
call option changes with the passage of time and tends to approach zero as expiration
approaches, but this is not true for the rho of put options.Ⅱ. Theta is always negative for
long calls and long puts and positive for short calls and short puts.Ⅲ. Vega of a call and a
put is different in sign.Which of the above is(are) correct?
A.I only.
B.II and III
C.I and II
D.None
参考答案：D
【莽学解析】本题考查希腊字母的定义和性质。对于Statement Ⅰ，call option和put option的rho都会随
着时间接近到期日而趋近于0，因此该陈述错误。对于Statement II，Theta一般而言是负的，即随着流逝时
间的增加（剩余时间减少），期权的价值会减小，但对于深度价内的欧式期权而言，流逝时间的增加（剩余
时间减少）可能会导致期权价值的增加，因为持有者更希望期权马上到期而获得盈利，剩余时间反而是一种
“累赘”。因此该陈述错误。对于Statement III，long call option和long put option的Vega均为正，负
号相同。因此该该陈述错误。因此所有陈述均错误，选项D正确。
 
39.An investor is looking to create an options portfolio on XYZ stock that will have virtually
zero Vega exposure while maximizing the ability to profit from the increase in interest rates.
If the current price of XYZ is $50, which of the following would accomplish his goals?
A.Sell a call with a strike price of $50.
B.Buy a call with a strike price of $25.
C.Sell a put with a strike price of $50.
D.Buy a put with a strike price of $25.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】本题考查希腊字母的性质。深度实值和虚值的call和put option的Vega趋近于0，当前现货价格
为50，期权的行权价应当距离50较远才能保证组合的Vega趋于0。当利率上涨时组合价值增加，意味着组合的
Rho大于0，而long call和short put的Rho大于0，short call和long put的Rho小于0。综合来看，应该买入
深度实值或者虚值的call option，卖出深度实值或者虚值的put option。因此正确选项为B。对于选项
A，short call option的Rho小于0，平值期权的Vega不为0。因此，该选项错误。对于选项C，平值期权的
Vega不为0。因此，该选项错误。对于选项D，long put option的Rho小于0。因此，该选项错误。
 
 
 
41.The major activity of an investment bank is raising capital for companies in the form of
debt, equity or more complicated securities. How many statements of financing arrangement is
(are) correct?I. The bank buys the securities at the agreed upon price and then attempts to
sell them for a lower price in a firm commitment arrangement.II. In the case of a public
offering, the agreement can be on a best efforts or a firm commitment basis.III. A firm
commitment arrangement is riskier for an investment bank than a best efforts arrangement.
A.one
B.two
C.three
D.none
40.A trader, Jim, constructed a portfolio of stock A and option X on stock A, this portfolio’s 
delta is now 56 and gamma is 230. The option Y has a gamma 13 and delta 0.3. What should Jim do 
to make the portfolio both delta and gamma neutral?
A.long 17.69 option Y, long 50.69 stock A.
B.short 17.69 option Y, short 50.69 stock A.
C.long 16.45 option Y, short 10.18 stock A.
D.short 16.45 option Y, long 10.18 stock A.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】
参考答案：B

【莽学解析】本题考查投资银行证券发行的方式。对于statement I，包销协议下，投行以低价收购证券，以
更高价发行，从而获得价差收入。因此该陈述错误。对于statement II，公开发行模式下，可分为包销和代
销两种形式。私募发行模式下，投行接受协定的佣金收入。因此该陈述正确。对于statement III，包销形式
比代销形式对于投行而言经营风险更大，因为有无法足额发行的潜在风险。因此该陈述正确。因此有2个陈述
正确，选项B正确。
 
42.For insurance company, the regulatory framework known as Solvency II was implemented in 2016
and applies to all insurance companies. According to the Solvency II and the situation of
insurance regulation in the United States, which of the following statements is most likely
correct?
A.An insurance company is required to formulate a plan to bring its capital back when its
capital falls below the minimum capital requirement (MCR).
B.An insurance company should transfer its existing policies to another insurance company when
its capital falls below the solvency capital requirement (SCR).
C.In the USA, insurance is regulated at the state level rather than at the federal level.
D.Capital requirements for P&C insurance company tends to be lower than those for Life
Insurance Company, because the longevity and mortality risks is more significant.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】本题考查保险公司的监管和资本金要求。美国的保险业监管是州一级管理的，所以一些大型的
保险公司最多可能会同时面临50多种不同的监管框架，这也是美国保险业的重要风险之一。因此正确选项为
C。对于选项A，MCR是保险公司的最低资本金要求红线，一旦资本金跌破红线，就会面临破产清算，现有业务
有被全部接管的风险。因此，该选项错误。对于选项B，SCR是对保险公司持续经营的资本金要求，短期内如
果触及，会被勒令快速补足资本金，并且停业整顿。因此，该选项错误。对于选项D，般而言财险公司的资本
金监管要求会比寿险公司要高，因为监管认为短期集中爆发财产人员损伤的情况会比寿险公司经营的长寿/早
夭风险要更严峻，所以财险公司需要准备更多的资本金。因此，该选项错误。
 
43.Tom is the manager of the derivatives department of GS investment company. He is holding an
interview and needs the interviewer to describe some characteristics of derivatives. Jerry and
Mike make the following descriptions as candidates. Jerry states that derivatives are only used
by companies to manage risks from the unexpected changes of interest rate, foreign exchange,
and commodity price, etc. Mike holds that derivatives are sometimes added to corporate bond
issuances. Which of the statement（　） above is/are most likely correct?
A.Only Jerry
B.Only Mike
C.Both Jerry and Mike
D.Neither of them
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】本题考查衍生品的基础概念。对于Jerry的描述，公司不仅可以利用衍生品去管理利率、外汇和
商品价格等意外变化带来的风险，还可用衍生品来进行投机和套利。因此该描述错误。对于Mike的描述，衍
生品有时会被添加到公司债券中，作为内嵌期权伴随债券一起发行。因此该描述正确。因此只有Mike的陈述
正确，选项B正确。
 
 
45.Jack, as the derivatives investment manager of GS investment company, is introducing the
relevant characteristics of futures contracts to customers.Statement 1:When one member is
taking a new longposition and another member becomes a short position in the contract, the open
interest increases by two.Statement 2: As the delivery period approaches, the futures price
converges to the spot price, and the market in which the futures price increases as the time to
maturity increases is called the inverted market.Which of the statement（　） above is/are
mostlikely correct?
A.Onlystatement 1
B.Onlystatement 2
C.Bothstatements 1 and 2
D.Neither of them
参考答案：D
【莽学解析】本题考查期货合约的特征。对于Statement1，多空双方共同新签一份期货合约时，未平仓量仅
44.Tom is currently in a long position in a futures contract. The current futures contract
price is $35. He expects asset prices to rise rapidly in the future and reach the resistance
level of $45 and then may fall. Which order could automatically help Tom get the most profit?
A.Sell market order
B.Sell market-if-touched order at $45
C.Stop-loss sell order at $35
D.Stop-and-limit sell order which stop price is $35 and limit price is $30
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】本题考查期货的报价指令。触价指令指资产达到规定价格或更有利的价格即成为市价订单，用
于限制盈利。当股价触及45美元时候生效成为市价指令，开始执行卖出指令，从而在预期下获得最大收益。
因此正确选项为B。对于选项A，市场指令是指要求以最优的市场价格尽快买入或卖出，当设置卖出市价指令
时，会以市价价格快速卖出，无法获取预期的收益。因此，该选项错误。对于选项C，止损指令指资产达到规
定价格或更不利的价格即成为市价订单，用于限制亏损。当前股价为35美元，卖出止损订单价格设置在35美
元时，一旦股价上涨超过35美元该订单将无法执行卖出指令，因此，该选项错误。对于选项D，止损限价指令
指资产达到规定价格或更不利的价格即成为限价订单，用于锁定交易价格区间。当止损价设置为35美元，限
价设置为30美元，意味着当市场价格低于35美元时开始卖出，但卖出价需要高于30美元。
增加一份。因此该称述错误。对于Statement2，随着交割期的临近，期货价格收敛于现货价格，期货价格随
着到期时间的增加而增加的市场称为正向市场 (normal market)。因此该陈述错误。因此Statement 1和
Statement 2均陈述错误，选项D正确。
 
46.Suppose that a hedger plans to sell 100,000 bushels of corn in June and uses the July
futures contract for hedging. Each contract is on 5,000 bushels of corn and therefore a total
of twenty contracts are shorted. Suppose that the futures price at the time the hedge is
initiated is 200 cents per bushel and that the futures price is 220 cents per bushel when the
hedge is closed out in June. The spot price for the corn being sold in June is 225 cents per
bushel. What is the USD price received for the corn when the loss from hedging is considered?
A.225,000 USD
B.245,000 USD
C.200,000 USD
D.205,000 USD
参考答案：D
【莽学解析】
 
 
47.A portfolio is worth USD 200 million that has a beta relative to the S&P 500 index of 0.75.
The S&P 500 index is currently trading at 5,000. The 3-month S&P 500 futures with a contract
size of 250USD × futures price is trading at 4,500. Using the 3-month S&P 500 futures
contract, which of the following transactions would increase the portfolio's beta to 0.9?
A.Long 27 futures contracts.
B.Short 27 futures contracts.
C.Long 24 futures contracts.
D.Short 24 futures contracts.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】
 
 
48.
A.45,750 USD
B.48,000 USD
C.2,250 USD
D.50,250 USD
参考答案：D
【莽学解析】
 
 
49.Six months ago a company entered in a one-year forward contract to buy the stock. At the
time, the one-year forward price was USD 88. The stock price is now USD 95 and the stock will
pay a dividend of USD 3 at the end of forward contract. The continuously compounded risk free
rate is 4% per year for all maturities, and there are no storage costs. Which of the following
is closest to the value of the forward contract?
A.-$5.80
B.$5.80
C.-$8.74
D.$8.74
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】
 
 
50.Jack and Rose are traders in the derivatives Department of GS investment company. They are
discussing the difference between forward and futures. Which of the following statements is
least likely correct?
A.As the forward contract is an OTC derivative, the trading process is more flexible, so there
are a series of delivery dates.
B.The short position of futures contracts has the right to choose the delivery time.
C.If the income yield is greater than the interest rate, the short position of futures
contracts will deliver later.
D.If the futures price is positively correlated with the interest rate, the futures price is
larger than the forward price.
参考答案：A

【莽学解析】本题考查远期合约与期货合约的异同。由于远期合约是场外衍生品，所签订的合约往往是定制
化的，合约存续期间很难转卖或提前结束，所以一般都是到期末进行交割的，不存在一系列的交割日。因此
A选项描述错误，符合题意，为正确选项。对于B选项，期货合约的空头方有权选择期货的交割时间。因此
，该选项描述正确，不符合题意，为错误选项。对于C选项，如果现货收益率大于无风险利率，期货合约的空
头方会更晚选择交割，多持有现货一段时间。因此，该选项描述正确，不符合题意，为错误选项。对于D选项
，如果期货价格与利率正相关，期货价格上涨时，利率也上涨，期货合约的多头方可以将获取的收益用于投
资从而赚取投资收益，而远期合约的多头方无法获取期间盈利的投资收益，则期货价格大于远期价格。因此
，该选项描述正确，不符合题意，为错误选项。
 
51.Based on the covered interest rate parity, if the risk-free rate for currency XXX is higher
than that for currency YYY, XXX is weaker in the forward market than in the spot market. A
currency trader noticesthat the interest rates in currencies USD and EUR are 3% and 5% per
annum (respectively) and the spot exchangerate is EURUSD 1.2500. Based on the covered interest
rate parity, how many percent will the euro appreciate or depreciate in one year?
A.appreciate 2%
B.appreciate 5%
C.depreciate 5%
D.depreciate 2%
参考答案：D
【莽学解析】
 
 
52.
A.Only Jerry
B.Only Tom
C.Both Jerry and Tom
D.Neither of them
参考答案：D
 
 
【莽学解析】
53.
A.Citigroup corporation has a comparative advantage in floating rate markets.
B.Apple has the absolute advantage in both fixed and floating rate markets.
C.Citigroup could transform its floating liability to fixed liability through the above swap
contract.
D.There is no benefit between Apple and Citigroup in this swap.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】
 
54.Jack is the major shareholder of XYZ company, but he expects that the company's shares will
fall in the future. On the premise of not selling shares, what strategy should he synthesize to
avoid risks?
A.Buyputoptions; Protective put strategy
B.Sellcalloptions;Covered call strategy
C.Buy risk free bonds; Principal protected notes
D.Buy call options; Fiduciary call strategy
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】本题考查单一期权策略。股票的多头头寸结合看跌期权的多头头寸可构成Protective put
strategy，使得股票持有者在不卖出股票的情况下，保护其在股价下跌时不遭受损失。因此正确选项为A。对
于选项B，股票的多头头寸结合看涨期权的空头头寸可构成Covered call strategy，当股价下跌时投资者会
遭受损失。因此，该选项错误。对于选项C，股票的多头头寸结合无风险债券的多头头寸构成的组合，当股价
下跌时投资者会遭受损失。Principal protected notes是指单一期权的头寸和无风险债券的多头头寸构成的
组合，可以提供本金保护。因此，该选项错误。对于选项D，股票的多头头寸结合看涨期权的多头头寸构成的
组合，当股价下跌时投资者会遭受损失。Fiduciary call strategy是指看涨期权的多头头寸和无风险债券的
多头头寸构成的组合。因此，该选项错误。
 
55.Jack is a junior analyst in GS Investment Fund. His team is discussing the six factors that
affect the price of options. Jack states that the value of call option rises, when the
underlying asset price increases. Rose states that the value of put option decreases, when the
present value of the dividend of the underlying stock increases. Which of the statement（　）
above is/are most likely correct?
A.Only Jack
B.Only Rose
C.Both Jack and Rose
D.Neither of them
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】
 
 
56.Suppose the current stock price is USD 18. The price of a European call option with strike
price USD 20 that will mature in three months is USD 3. The price of a European put with the
same strike price and time to maturity is USD 4, while the three-month risk free rate is 2% per
year (annually compounded). Assume the stock on which the options are written provides no
dividends. What kind of actions should an arbitrageur take to capture an arbitrage opportunity?
A.Long the call, short the risk-free bond, long the put, and short the stock.
B.Short the call, long the risk-free bond, short the put, and long the stock.
C.Short the call, short the risk-free bond, long the put, and long the stock.
D.Long the call, long the risk-free bond, short the put, and short the stock.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】
 
 
57.Jack bought a call option expiring on December 2021 on XYZ stock with an exercise price of
$10 for a$2 premium, and the other is a put option on December 2021 on XYZ stock with an
exercise price of $8 and for a$1 premium. Please identify this option strategy and calculate
breakeven point（　）.
A.Long strangle, breakeven points are $13 and $5
B.Short calendar spread, breakeven points is $13
C.Short straddle, breakeven points are $13 and $5
D.Long bull spread, breakeven points is $13
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】
 
 
58.Asian options provide a payoff dependent on an arithmetic average of the underlying asset
price during the life of the option. The average price is usually calculated using periodic
observations. Suppose K is the strike price, STis the final asset price, and Saveis the average
asset price. What is the payoff of a long position in an average price call and a short
position in an average price put?
A.
B.
C.
D.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】
 
59.Barrier options have payoffs that depend on whether the asset price reaches a particular
barrier. Options that cease to exist when a barrier is reached are sometimes referred to as
knockout options, whereas options that come into existence when a barrier is reached are
referred to as knock-in options. Which of the following statements about barrier options is
most incorrect?
A.Barrier options can be attractive to market participants because they are less expensive than
regular options.
B.As with binary options and gap options, the payoff of barrier options is discontinuous.
C.Like regular options, barrier options prices increase as volatility increases.
D.A down-and-out call with a strike price of USD 32 and a barrier at USD 27 will provide the
same payoff as a regular call with a strike price of USD 32 as long as the stock price does not
fall below USD 27.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】本题考查障碍期权的性质。障碍期权的价值并不一定随着标的资产的波动率增加而增加，当敲
出期权接近障碍价格时，波动率的增加可能会降低期权的价值，因为增加了触及障碍价格导致期权失效的可
能性。因此C选项描述错误，符合题意，为正确选项。对于选项A，障碍期权相较于普通期权而言有更多的限
制，对投资者不利，所以价格会比普通期权更加便宜。因此，该选项描述正确，不符合题意，为错误选项。
对于选项B，障碍期权的损益以障碍价格为分界点会呈现出不连续的情况，两值期权的损益以行权价为分界点
会呈现跳跃性，并不是连续的，缺口期权的执行价和触发价不一致时，损益也会呈现跳跃性。因此，该选项
描述正确，不符合题意，为错误选项。对于选项D，向下敲出的障碍看涨期权的执行价为32，障碍价格为
27，当标的资产的价格高于27时并不会导致期权失效，此期权和普通的看涨期权无异。因此，该选项描述正
确，不符合题意，为错误选项。
 
60.Considering ALIBABA corporation which the stock price of no-dividend paying is currently
trading at USD 30, and its annual price volatility is 30%. The continuously compounding risk-
tree interest rate is 5%per year. A financial risk manager is considering a two-step binomial
tree for a 2-year horizon. What is the price of the American put option with the strike price
of USD 33?
A.5.7042
B.$4.9537
C.$2.5706
D.$4.6698
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】本题考查美式期权两步二叉树的计算。依据题意，美式看跌期权可能会提前行权，因此求期望
折现后，需要和同一节点立即行权的payoff进行比较。计算步骤如下：step1，计算上涨和下跌因子：
 
 
61.A no-arbitrage argument is a useful method for valuing American and European options. Which
the following statement about the no-arbitrage argument is least likely correct?
A.It is not suitable for put-call parity.
B.Option can be used for hedging risky assets.
C.The probability of upward movement was not required to be known.
D.The risk-neutral valuation model can be derived from the no-arbitrage argument.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】本题考查衍生品的无套利定价理论。无套利理论也适用于put-call parity，看涨期权和无风险
资产构成的组合与看跌期权和标的资产构成的组合价值相等，否则将存在套利机会。选项A描述错误，符合题
意，为正确选项。对于选项B，期权可以用来对冲风险资产，通过将风险资产与期权组合，行成一个无风险的
投资组合，从而实现期权的定价。因此，该选项描述正确，不符合题意，为错误选项。对于选项C，无套利模
型中不需要标的资产的上涨和下跌概率，风险中性的定价模型需要计算标的资产的上涨和下跌概率。因此
，该选项描述正确，不符合题意，为错误选项。对于选项D，风险中性定价模型可以由无套利理论推导出来
，两种模型给出的结果是相同的。因此，该选项描述正确，不符合题意，为错误选项。
 
62.A hedge fund has USD 100 million of investors’ funds and its fees are 2 plus 20%. The fund
manager chooses a highly risky strategy that has a 50% chance of producing a profit of USD 30
million and a 50% chance of a loss of USD 12 million. The hurdle rate is 4% and the management
fees are based on the beginning of the asset. What is the net expected return to the investor?
A.$9.0 million
B.$4.4 million
C.$4.6 million
D.$4.2 million
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】
 
 
63.The information of hedge funds are less transparent than mutual funds and often employ a
variety of trading strategies to achieve higher returns. The common trading strategies are
dedicated short, merger arbitrage, emerging markets, global macro, etc. Which of the following
statements about this trading strategies is most incorrect?
A.A dedicated short fund devotes its attention to picking overvalued stocks and it doesn\u2019t
hedge against the overall performance of the market.
B.Merger arbitrage strategies are based on the experience that the share price of the target
company usually increases, but not to the price being offered.
C.Hedge funds that specialize in emerging markets could use American Depositary Receipts
(ADRs), which are certificates backed by shares of a foreign company and traded on an exchange
in the United States.
D.Almost all global macro trades are successful because economies will not remain in
disequilibrium for long periods of time.
参考答案：D
【莽学解析】本题考查对冲基金的交易策略。采用全球宏观策略的对冲基金经理进行的交易反映了全球经济
的走向，他们试图寻求市场因某种原因脱离其平衡点的情形，并且对经济状态会返回平衡状态下赌注。这种
策略重要问题是，基金经理并不知道经济平衡会在何时恢复，由于某种原因，全球经济市场可能长时间持续
不平衡状态。因此D选项描述错误，符合题意，为正确选项。对于选项A，专门的空头基金专注于挑选被高估
的股票进行做空，并不会对冲市场的整体表现。因此，该选项描述正确，不符合题意，为错误选项。对于选
项B，并购套利交易往往在兼并和收购消息公布后进行，同时寄希望于并购交易达成。从经验上看目标公司的
股价通常会上涨，但不会涨至并购方提供的价格。因此，该选项描述正确，不符合题意，为错误选项。对于
选项C，新兴市场基金专注于发展中国家的投资，可以使用美国存托凭证，它是美国金融机构为协助外国证券
在美国交易而发行的一种可转让证书。美国存托凭证的价格与外国公司股票价格之间的任何差异都可能导致
套利机会。因此，该选项描述正确，不符合题意，为错误选项。
 
64.X, Y, and Z have entered into many derivative transactions. When transactions between X and
Y are netted, the net value to X is 60. When transactions between Y and Z are netted, the net
value to Y is 70. When transactions between Z and X are netted, the net value to Z is 80.
Suppose that all transactions are cleared through a CCP rather than bilaterally. What is the
net position of X?
A.20
B.-20
C.10
D.-10
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】本题考查中央清算下交易会员的敞口计算。X和Y双边净额结算后的净头寸为X收入60，Y和Z双边
净额结算后的净头寸为Y收入70，Z和X双边净额结算后的净头寸为Z收入80。当三方采用中央清算后，X收入
60和支出80，最终为净支出20。因此正确选项为B。
 
65.The new derivatives regulations do nothing more than replace too-big-to-fail banks with too-
big-to-fail CCPs. It certainly would be a disaster for the financial system if a major CCP were
to fail. Which of the following statements about the risk faced by CCP is most incorrect?
A.One significant problem with CCPs is that there is a positive correlation among member
defaults.
B.CCPs treat all members in the same manner when calculating initial margin and default fund
contributions.
C.The auction processes for closing out defaulting members would always success in any
turbulent markets.
D.CCPs are faced with a trade-off between the return it gets by investing initial margin and
the liquidity constraints of its investments.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】本题考查CCP面临的风险。拍卖违约会员的合约失败是CCP面临的风险之一，尤其是在动荡的市
场环境下，拍卖会更加困难，并不能保证一定会拍卖成功。因此C选项描述错误，符合题意，为正确选项。对
于选项A，违约会员之间的相关性较强会引起大量的违约，对于CCP会造成较大的负面影响，是CCP面临的风险
之一。因此，该选项描述正确，不符合题意，为错误选项。对于选项B，CCP针对所有的会员按照相同的标准
收取初始保证金和违约基金，无法反映会员真实的风险情况，是CCP面临的风险之一。因此，该选项描述正确
，不符合题意，为错误选项。对于选项D，CCP可以将会员缴纳的初始保证金用于投资赚取收益，但需要在获
取投资收益和满足日常资金需求之间做权衡，即CCP会面临流动性风险。因此，该选项描述正确，不符合题意
，为错误选项。
